China is at war with the West already we
just don't see it and when I look at a
map like this I see a lot of problems
here is one issue over there Putin is
threatening nuclear weapons and then
this regime has been engaged in
assassination plots on the president
elect and then over here this is looming
right as a major issue who's the real
enemy of the West in your opinion I've
talked to a number of experts and their
take is is that how do you think this
ends
um EX CIA officer Mike Baker spent
decades in the field mastering the Spy
skills you need to achieve success in
business and everyday life and offers
unique insights into the looming
geopolitical threats that's facing the
West when you left the CIA you start
being a spy for companies why because in
its core the cia's responsibility is to
get intelligence because without that
you cannot make smart strategic
decisions and if you can sell the idea
to somebody that they should commit
treason on their country and betray
their family to gather intelligence and
Protect US National Security interests
then that's an incredible skill to use
in selling in business and there's a lot
of ways you can do this people are
capable of it more so than they realize
but there's a lot of similarities
between what I used to do in the Spy
world and what you do in business
there's targeting manipulation
psychology of how people think
identifying weaknesses and leverage how
they close the deal the most important
thing I took away was what I referred to
as getting off the X and that's how you
get companies to stay with you for 20
years let's go through all of them first
of all you start with
this has always blown my mind a little
bit 53% of you that listen to the show
regularly haven't yet subscribed to the
show so could I ask you for a favor
before we start if you like the show and
you like what we do here and you want to
support us the free simple way that you
can do just that is by hitting the
Subscribe button and my commitment to
you is if you do that then I'll do
everything in my power me and my team to
make sure that this show is better for
you every single week we'll listen to
your feedback we'll find the guest that
you want me to speak to and we'll
continue to do what we do thank you so
much
[Music]
Mike who are
you and give
me a couple of sentences on the Journey
of your career and what it's exposed you
to I'm a a dude who's been very
fortunate in life um I started with the
CIA uh at an early age not necessarily
expecting to start with the CIA and the
operations directorate and you you
joined the CIA at 22 years old
yeah basically um early ' 80s beginning
of the 80s what was your how did you
sort of encapsulate your mission into a
couple of sentences during that
time this is going to sound really weird
to do whatever I was instructed to do
um to further um the mission objectives
so and what I mean by that is that's not
just me or another officer or somebody
else in there that's their job so the
CIA doesn't set priorities it doesn't
set Set uh tasking right that's done by
the White House um and those in the
White House in the government at the
time the administration at the time for
setting the priorities tasking and
that's in part obviously Guided by
intelligence provided by the
intelligence community so it's it's a
symbiotic relationship but the tasking
comes into the agency and the agency
says Fine get on with it and that could
be collection of Intelligence on a
particular subject and so you could be
talking about we need to know what uh
Putin's plans and intentions are we need
to know what's the uh breakout time for
the Iranian regime to actually uh reach
uh weapons capability for the nuclear
program whatever the tasking is right it
comes into the agency the agency then
fine let's get busy with it and there's
other elements of the Intel Community
all working very hard to accomplish that
same thing so it could be the NSA is
also working on that it could be
military Ence is also working on that
there's there's a lot of moving Parts
but uh my part was was at the agency so
did you have to spend a lot of time
overseas and if so if you were overseas
what were you doing overseas yeah uh I
spent uh my entire time um I never had a
what you would call a headquarters tour
so I spent all my time overseas
traveling what was your day-to-day like
because it's just it's just a world so
far away from anything that I know so
I'm like you spend all that time in the
CIA overseas when you wake up in the
morning are you are you undercover
because if you're in a foreign country
presumably they don't know that you're
part of the CIA well no we have
different types of of operations and
different types of things I mean so you
can you could end up living in a in a
foreign country for two or three years
right you got a home there and you're
you know you're working there and and um
other times it could be a short one-off
operation where you're just dropping in
to do something in particular maybe to
meet an asset or whatever it might be
what's an asset an asset is a is a
source uh is a recruited source so um
that's a good point there's there's
misconception sometimes in vocabulary
right so they'll say CIA agent well in
reality it's a CIA officer the agent is
the person that's been recruited or the
asset um the the human source and so
that's and that's a that's a in
incredible skill right to be able to go
out you have to you have to identify
first of all you start with what's
what's the information you're looking
for and that's the fascinating thing
this it turns out that what I used to do
and what we do in in my business which
is you know intelligence and
investigations um Security Services is
pretty much the same thing what
information does the client in the cia's
case that's the US government what
information does the client need uh
where does it reside who has access to
it and how can you you get a hold of it
appropriately right so how can you get
that
information you identify the target then
you figure out you know what you need to
do to uh develop potentially a
relationship you develop that
relationship then you if you're
fortunate enough you recruit that asset
that person could be a deputy foreign
minister could be a senior military
officer could be could be a cab driver
you know who uh can tell you everything
that's happening in a particular
neighborhood of Interest whatever it
might be um but that process of that
that recruitment cycle um of the
spotting you know targeting development
recruitment running then you've got to
maintain that
relationship and the interesting thing
is um often times particularly when
you're talking about a
really a really important asset someone
who's in a position of
access um maybe because they've risen up
through their own government
right that that window from the minute
you get them on board you set the hook
you get them recruited and they start
reporting taking tasking that window
starts to
close and there's a clock that that's
ticking because usually that's a it can
be a corrosive thing on on a person's in
you know character right on on on their
on their their being right so you
recruit a you recruit a Russian right um
you're you're always in the back of your
mind thinking okay you you know how long
do we have here right before because it
it's unless they're a psychotic right
then then they don't care they don't
give a [__] they they'll be happy to to
to do this but it's not a normal thing
right so to be able to convince somebody
to sell the idea to somebody that they
should uh they should um essentially
commit treason on their country right um
is is a remarkable thing I've always
felt anyway so then when I went into
business you know the idea of of
business development of selling seemed
like sure that's that's an easy lift
right because yeah that's anyway I'm
disappearing down a rabbit hole no
you're not I mean this is exactly the
rabbit hole that I wanted to go down
because I mean this is the D so I do
want to understand how you think about
selling because that seems like the
hardest thing to sell to get you know
potentially a Russian to commit treason
against their country I'm thinking God
what what are you offering them in in
terms of an
incentive um so would would your job in
that be to convince them or would it be
to go and meet them to collect the
information or would it be something
else could be all of those be all of
those and then part of it depends on
where what location I mean sometimes you
have you have difficult places obviously
it's more difficult to work in in um a
challenging environment like um pick a
place I mean right now current conf
think about working in Lebanon right if
you're developing or working with a
source I don't there's not a lot of
potential recruits forah right now they
don't even though there's Headroom they
don't I don't don't think there's a lot
of willing people wanting to take some
of those jobs but but the point being is
is uh that um you could end up doing all
of those things you might have spotted
somebody you might develop them you
might recruit them right and you're
going to handle them for a while uh
maybe then you're going to head off
someplace else and someone else is going
to come in and take over that
relationship that's also a crucial point
right because you know if you've
developed a a a personal relationship
with somebody uh to the point where
they're going yeah I guess I can't do
that I can't provide you with
Intelligence on this or that right
because think about they're not just
betraying they're not betraying their
country I've always thought about this
uh particularly when we're talking about
Traders here uh in the states right we
you you know edley Howard Jim Nicholson
right um who are these people Hansen
these are all traders to the US so um
moles whatever you want to call them
within the uh agency Hansen was a at the
FBI one of the most destructive Traders
we ever had but what did he do um he
interestingly enough um was a longtime
FBI agent who
um he was responsible for uh Counter
Intelligence to some degree uh for a big
degree uh related to the former Soviet
Union and Russia um and so he had a
tremendous amount of knowledge about how
the Russian service worked right and
then eventually he ended up uh allowing
he wasn't even recruited he offered his
services but he offered him in such a
way because he understood how they
worked that he was able to do it without
the Russians
knowing who he was right so it was a
very remote relationship and he trolled
it which is fascinating which allowed
him to then do this for a very long
period of time and and betray a number
of of uh of of our Russian assets and
those people didn't have a happy ending
and so uh but the the idea is that you
look at those people or you look at
anybody who does that right they're not
just portraying their country they're
betraying their their service they're
betraying their family all all these
things because it's a it's a fascinating
psychology and if you don't think about
that if you don't understand that then I
think it's hard to to close the deal
with anybody um what is that deal so in
the case of the gentleman you mentioned
who was a traitor to the US is he
getting paid is it money that they're
doing it was he was getting paid he had
some issues he was he was kind of a
quirky individual he was spending a lot
of money on a mistress or someone who
you imagined to be his mistress and um
motivation can be a difficult thing
right sometimes and sometimes it's a
very straightforward thing it's usually
not ideology interesting yeah I know
that that I had the same thought when
when I first started and and they kind
of went through this process of saying
what are motivations well money is a big
one so you've got you know and then
ideology not so much uh sometimes it
could be something as simple as they've
got a sick kid they can't get treatment
for the kid in whatever country they
happen to reside in sometimes
it's it's it's more based than that just
they they don't feel like they got
enough hugs from their employer or they
feel disrespected by their their their
their their government or whatever you
you have to be able to identify those
weaknesses and then you have to be
willing to to play on them frankly and
so on the point of identification if you
met me and I was an asset is that that's
the word right um you would be I mean
you know if we had just met yeah you
would you would be a potential a
potential Source Target uh velopmental
okay so I've got I'm a cab driver and I
drive a high ranking official and every
day in the car he's telling me
everything that's going on he's just
offloading so you want to recruit me
right yeah so how' you go about
recruiting me well theoretically it's
it's just going to be I'm going to find
something that you're interested in how
and then I'm going to be a conversation
it's as simple as that so you might get
in my cab one day yeah and then I'll
I'll just get in your cab and we'll
start talking
and people love this you I mean you're
probably on planes as much as I am um
people love to talk right and they love
to talk about themselves right so if you
get if if you just ask questions right
if that's all you do you don't have to
say anything about yourself right I
don't know how many thousands of
conversations I've had where you know
someone says so what are you doing I
said just you know I'll give them some
[__] I mean not now but and as soon
as you give them something that doesn't
sound interesting
then fine now you got a A Runway then
you just turn it on onto them and say so
what do you do people want to talk about
themselves it's it's it's striking
sometimes and I mean we find this all
the time and it's just information
gathering right like if we if we have a
client and they say uh we've got a a
business
in pickup Place let's just just for
grins let's say China we've got an
investment that we've made in China but
it doesn't it's not sense right we're
not seeing what we thought we were going
to see from the revenues or from the the
the production whatever what's going on
well if we have someone Rock up at that
factory or that manufacturing facility
or whatever and outside there outside
the factory is just rows of of noodle
shops or whatever you know food trucks
or whatever you want to call but there's
a maybe there's a security guard or you
know some people just sitting around
they love to talk right because they've
got nothing else going on in their day
right and so the information you can get
from people whether it's a security
guard sitting in a booth all day long
who's suddenly going to tell you well no
the plant is only up and operating
Mondays Wednesdays and Fridays or you
know this is this is the number of
trucks that are coming out you know
little benign stuff that that no one's
going to think anything of the amount of
information you can gather from people
um maybe it's someone who's working as a
cleaner in a building maybe it's a cab
driver it doesn't matter um you know
it's it's a secretary in a business
right you're you're looking for people
with access who um they're just going to
be inclined to talk right it it sounds
odd sometimes but you get that
conversation going you find things that
the person's interested in then you
start mirroring that perhaps maybe that
oh you know I'm interested in that too
maybe I'm not maybe I find it boring as
hell there was one where it was like
chess I was like God damn I hate chess
but but the guy was really into chess
right and uh it was overseas and and uh
we were drinking and bumped into him at
the bar and and uh you know we started
talking and turns out that his his
passion was chess suddenly my passion is
chess problem is you got to demonstrate
that right and I sucked at it so so it
was a quick a quick uh crash course in
how to at least make myself look
somewhat reasonable um but then and then
you're just looking for other points of
of of of access and and what that turns
into is points of
Leverage so that sounds you know if once
you take it further enough down the the
the the walk it can sound very mercenary
right and it is you're talking about
again asking people to do something
that's not necessarily in their best
interests but you're doing it for a very
stated purpose now again a lot of people
will listen to this and go that's just
[__] you're just doing it for the
man right you're doing it for the the
government and okay well you know what
nations that are hostile to us interests
or UK's interests or Australia's
interest or Canada's interest or
Europe's interest they're doing this all
the time and they're doing it a lot more
aggressively and with no guard rails
about how they behave right
so yeah yeah so I'm that cab driver I've
started off loading to because you've
got me talking you've told me your you
know you've said your career is not
interesting I start talking at what
point do you
seek out that leverage so at some point
you're looking for him to maybe say his
son's sick or something right well I
mean yeah something along those lines or
you're just looking for you're looking
for
um you're building a profile of the
person's personality right so you're
trying to understand what's important to
them you're trying to understand what
drives them you're trying to understand
where their problems are you know uh
you're trying to understand if they have
any grievances you're looking for you're
really just building a a a a map of what
this P person is like you're not going
to get that in one taxi ride oh no no no
not at all not at all so what do you
want to do you want to you want to have
a you want to have a reason to uh uh
meet up again right you're always
looking in simple terms you know you get
that first encounter what do you want
well you want a second encounter so you
got to find some reason for that now
sometimes it's easier than other times
right like so you know you can't uh uh
you know you can't always get that but
that's what you're looking for another
reason to meet back up with that
individual seemingly just for no reason
it just happens right or or
uh I mean it's like this morning I got
in a car right um was an
Uber and at the end of the the uh the
drive the guy gives me his card says uh
hey you know if if you ever need a ride
whatever um you know I've got a couple
of cars and so I you know this is kind
of what I do plus I do the draw Uber I
like that as
well um and so now yeah fine I can give
him a call back right and and I've done
that overseas in cases where I've said
look I you know I need to know that I
can get from point A to point B tomorrow
can I just call you rather than hope
that I catch a cab there's a lot of ways
you can do this it's not it's not rocket
science you know but it can be
um it can be uh difficult when you're
talking about a high value Target yeah
yeah yeah cab driver is probably a
little bit more straightforward because
there's a clear reason why you'd
frequent the the Pres but maybe the head
of the Iranian nuclear program might be
a little bit more complicated
to although that would be good too um
yeah so your training they they they
find you at 22 years old I hear what do
they train you to be good at there's
everything from um tradecraft which is a
key part of it and tradecraft
encompasses a lot of things right it's
it's how do you conduct yourself
overseas how do you do clandestine
Communications um how' you go cover how
do you go undercover um use of Disguise
uh there's surveillance counter
surveillance uh there's there's a lot to
when I just say tradecraft what that
involves um and then there's other
training there's paramilitary training
and and other things that you do what
about people skills what are the people
skills they try and teach you there's a
lot of talking about um um the
psychology of the recruitment process uh
which means you're diving into you know
profiling individuals the psychology of
of how people think um what that process
does to an individual I mean and and
there's um it's interesting I mean
there's there's there's some folks who
who I think struggled with that more
than others and I think the idea of of
of of getting people to that point of
recruiting people I think some folks I
think found
it uh difficult
maybe problematic right because of of
the manipulation involved
um you know I I I didn't I again not
necessarily being a deep thinker I
didn't sit a lot of the time you know at
home angst ridden over you know whether
I was being manipulative or not I was
just I have a task I'm going to do the
task and and and then move on but um the
training can take quite a while can a
couple of years uh before they feel like
you're ready to to go out so you
eventually leave the
CIA um after a very very long career
there why did you
leave my daughter was young and um uh I
was in the process of uh of getting a
divorce uh which took a while my ex-wife
great person but not compatible by the
end I think I my career was a little
difficult um and so I needed to do
something that kept
me closer to home you started doing
corporate Espionage
thereafter we call it we call it
strategic intelligence and
investigations okay so for someone that
doesn't know what strategic intelligence
and investigations corporate Espionage
is it's effectively being a spy for
companies it could be there could be an
element of that yes I'm not gonna I'm
not going to deny that look it's it
there are corporations out there that
are very aggressive in understanding
what other companies are doing right in
particular um but what we got started in
um was
primarily a company will come to you and
say we're making an investment
in a country we've never operated in
before pick a country um tell us
everything we need to know what what are
the problems what are the risks what are
the threats what are you know how do you
assess that uh it could be we've had a
fraud we've had a and and and now we've
had theft of intellectual property we
need to know how bad it is um it could
be we're doing a joint venture and we
just need to know about who we're
investing in right you never know it
could be that they're saying look we're
we're not having any success in maybe
they're in the mining sector we're not
having any success in Africa where we're
trying to pick up these licenses and yet
these other companies are picking them
up left and right what are we doing
wrong what are they doing right who are
they dealing with so now we're getting
closer to what you referred to as
corporate
Espionage
um but you have to because you're not
working for a government you know the
the guard rails have now shrunk right in
terms of what you can do and so you have
to know what is uh legally appropriate
in each jurisdiction and that changes
right what you can do over here is
different than what you could do in the
UK or in France or in the US or whatever
so as long as you know what the
parameters are um then you you you do
that right to gather information that's
going to benefit the client did you have
to go undercover terms of physical
disguises yeah yeah on on occasion which
was great yeah I mean if you like if you
I I love the acting part of it right
because you you'd be you'd be I would
get completely absorbed in it right and
then uh and I I loved it so I I didn't
have a problem sometimes people don't
enjoy it or they don't it's it's not if
you if you're not confident if you don't
have if you're put on a disguise whether
it's a full overhead mask or whether
it's just you know disguised kid or
whatever uh if you're not comfortable
doing that it'll show out right but if
you're walking down the street in
Disguise nobody on that street is
thinking oh that guy's in Disguise it's
not how people think right so unless you
do something stupid it's not going to
show out did you ever wear a Masque yeah
yeah that's apris look we had Hollywood
makeup artists uh there that I mean
their their disguise unit is legendary
amazing what they can do yeah why did
you write company rules I felt like for
me over a short period of time after I'd
been involved in private sector for for
quite a
while it suddenly occurred to me that I
was the reason why we were able to keep
a business breathing was because of some
of these things that I absorbed from the
company right the these rules the and
it's not like there a book they don't
hand you a book and say Here's your
company rules on day one right it's
they're implied they're they're kind of
embedded in the training process of the
CIA of the CIA right and so what I
hadn't realized was I because I thought
when I got out look people asked me when
I said I was going to leave I I didn't
retire I was too young to retire I was
leaving right I left behind my pension
and everything I didn't have there was
no Financial reason to do what I did and
um so they were their question was
always the same which what the hell you
going to
do I I didn't have an answer which
probably should have been a red flag but
um I knew I was going to have to go into
kind of this world of gathering
information of Security
Services because I I don't think I'd fit
anywhere else and so it took me a long
time to realize that the reason why I
was able to build a business and I
couldn't have built a business with a
very very close friend of mine uh Nick
day who came out of of uh um SPS and and
uh
MI5
um but we couldn't have done that if I
hadn't absorbed some of that training
and those rules as I put them from the
agency and so that's why I wanted to try
to say look this is why I was able to do
this um and keep a business breathing
look we haven't built a mega Corporation
but we built a nice life for a lot of
people right and what are the most sort
of transferable rules that you were able
to transfer from your time as a CI
working in the CIA to the world of
business that you were like oh my God
this is exactly the same game here the
same technique I mean first and foremost
it was um we'll start out with the first
one that I put down which which is
Define the mission right so the agency
does that very well with a very outset
you spend a lot of time sitting in
classrooms listening to people explain
how the agency works why it works the
way it does where it fits within the
government what its purpose what it's
what its mission is and if you don't
know that right then whether it's the
CIA or whether it's your business then
you got a problem you probably shouldn't
really get started and then you have to
communicate that mission and that's what
they did very very well and so I took
that away and I was always very simpl
minded in terms of a business I always
knew what I wanted to do which was
provide again the best quality product
possible that's how you get companies to
stay with you for 20 years right they
know you're going to bust your ass and
you're going to overproduce and you're
going to do everything within again
within the balance of what you can do to
give them the best information so that
they can then win in whatever they're
working or operating and then we we you
know I think if you if you hire smart
people um and you explain the mission
you communicate that properly to
them then you know your battles
half one right you really you know you
you you've cracked that that uh that nut
but then other parts of it are uh you've
got to know your uh your risk appetite
and the agency spends a lot of time I
guess that was my point from earlier is
it a lot of people think the agency just
goes out and does [__] right let's just
go blow that building up or let's go
pick up that high value Target or let's
go whatever it is we're going to do and
they don't give any thought to it
because that's how the movies operate
right and they just yeah go do this [__]
um
there's a lot of time spent on risk
versus gain um and what's the potential
blowback what are those scenarios look
like so you have to know your risk
appetite and you have to communicate
that because everybody has to be on the
same page as to what's allowable and
what's not allowable and that's true in
in in in private sector as well we have
to know you can't do this you can't have
a a one party conversation and record it
in particular jurisdiction or you know
no you can't can't do the following
because the information you're Gathering
is end up in court it's got to be you
know evidentially proper so things have
to be done in a in a in an appropriate
way so if you don't know all those
things then you're going to get yourself
you know crosswise somehow um know your
operating environment is a key thing uh
this is a a constant surprise sometimes
with with some companies that we start
working with where you realize that they
don't necessarily understand the
operating environment they where they're
working what the market rest
restrictions are what their competitors
are doing right what the uh the
government is like in that particular
country what the instability issues are
what whatever it may be you put all that
together you know your operating
environment you know your your risk uh
you defined your mission and then at
some point you got
to um make decisions right and I think
that's again long-winded answer to your
question which is probably the most
important thing I took away was uh what
I referred to as getting off the a and
the a is the Ambush site so in in the
old days you don't want to end up on the
Ambush site that's a bad place to be um
and there are indicators right whether
you're talking about being in in Mexico
and rolling up on a cartel Ambush or
you're talking about being overseas uh
in a place like U Iraq and you're in a
convoy movement and you have to
understand what the indicators are that
something bad is is going to happen if
you don't make a
decision you're never going to get all
the information you want in business
right but there are a lot of people who
get paralyzed by that they want all the
data you know they want to be able to
think through and that's you know that's
a good thing if that's your mindset but
something bad's going to happen or
you're going to miss an opportunity it's
going to pass you by and so one of the
things that the agency taught was just
make a damn decision right with the
information that you've got you're
always going to want more but with the
information that you've got whether it's
imperfect or not understand the nature
of that information but then just make a
damn decision right how do they get you
to do that because there's a lot of
people listening now that are maybe
paralyzed in their own personal lives
with a decision to leave a job to leave
a city to leave a partner yeah you know
or a big strategic decision that's
actually really good it's a good point
yeah
uh I
I the agency teaches you through sort of
repetition and and uh and understanding
that would sorry you waited too long
this is this is not good you
you uh but in a in a better sense I
think what I've learned also is look I
tell my kids this all the time um I tell
my boys and my daughter this is
it there's never that many options on
the decision tree right not that life's
completely binary but we tend to
overthink everything and we tend to over
complicate things when we're faced with
a decision whether it's do I leave my my
job uh do I move whatever it might be do
I you know take a big strategic decision
for my company you tend to you tend to
over complicate right life I I've always
found and maybe maybe I'm simple-minded
but one of the things that I I took away
from the agency is that life sometimes
is just as simple as it seems right
again why I'm not a big conspiracy theor
theorist but um so if you narrow it down
and say look I'm not faced with an
endless array of options here you know I
may have on any big decision I may have
two or three options right I'm going to
take this job okay what does that mean
well it means I'm taking a chance take
okay people talk about writing your
positives and your negatives down I
don't know whether that's really a
helpful thing or not right because then
you get lost in this list and then you
start imagining positives and negatives
and then it's a so I always try to say
look you gotta you don't act just for
the sake of acting right that's
sometimes has its own negative
consequences but you you take the
information you've got and then
you just you you make a decision right
because if you again if it's the inertia
of not acting if you're if you're in an
unhappy relationship and you say you
know what do I do do I stay in this
unhappy relationship because maybe it's
going to get better okay what are the
odds of that happening right it's been
going on for 10 years maybe you're not
happy get the hell out right do
something different if you're thinking
about changing your job if you're not
happy in your job which is a it's a
quality of life issue right I and I tell
that to to my folks all the time if you
think you would be happier somewhere
else you got to go give it a try if you
think you'd be happier going out and
starting a business you should do that
right but you got to you got to jump in
and I know I'm I'm this is probably not
as detailed as a you know psychiatrist
would give but I really do honestly
believe that any any major decision you
can distill it down to a very very
limited number of options and that makes
it easier but if you just sit there
staring at it and people do I would see
the this in operations all the time
people would just start imagining all
the different scenarios and I thought
you know what honest to God when the the
when the whistle goes right and the
Ambush starts and usually you shouldn't
start an ambush with a whistle um you
know it's going to go you know one way
another way you don't
don't don't don't get bogged down in
what could happen What might happen that
was another thing I think I I did well
at the agency was I didn't ever sit
around and stare at my belly button and
think well I wonder what would have
happened if I had done this no you live
with your mistakes you live with your
consequences you live with the good
things life is tough enough as it is
right and we just we just seem like we
want to make it tougher and I don't ever
understand that it's an interesting time
in the United States at the
moment is it something happen yeah I
mean it's an interesting time in the
world to be honest when you think about
everything that's going on very very
unique times but Trump has just been
elected he's now president
president-elect of the United
States is that
consequential and if so how would you
believe it to be
consequential yeah uh what do they say
don't talk about politics religion or
taxes um so yes I think it is
consequential um I think it was
something that uh very few people
predicted the the size of the of the
victory uh look he um he took all the
swing States right um he turned uh a
surprising number of of districts uh in
favor of the Republicans in states that
he didn't win um he outperformed in most
categories right uh the demographics
were rather shocking right and people
wanted to talk about how well it's going
to be the it's going to come down to the
Women Voters well it didn't right fewer
Women Voters voted for kamla Harris they
did previously for Hillary Clinton and
Joe Biden right so and he gained in uh
in Suburban voters Women Voters so it's
consequential in reshaping at least in
in the short to midterm people's
understanding of the uh the electorate I
think now it's probably not
consequential in the fact that I don't
know that the Democrats they don't seem
to be doing it yet I don't think they're
going to be particularly uh
uh self-aware or introspective right
they spent months longer than that
referring to a large portion of the
population as uh as moronic as
unintelligent as sexist as racist as um
as as garbage as fascists as Nazis right
they you how you do that and then
not understand how you've just gotten
kicked in the ass during the election
I'm not quite sure but they seem
incapable right now of any sort of
reflection on what they need to do as a
party right to maybe turn things around
so I don't know consequentially whether
it's going to change the Democrat Party
for the next election um but yeah it'll
be and and then you have to ask yourself
okay the policies that you know that
that are important um from National
Security perspective from foreign policy
you know what are we looking at
differently here with Trump coming in do
do you think he's going to end some Wars
like the war in the Ukraine and Russia
do you think he's going to end that
because I mean he's he's pretty much
said in the election cycle that he was
gonna call Putin an end it on day one or
something like that
so I yeah that's right I forgot about
that it's gonna end it on day one gonna
stop this war
um yeah
with set Trump over here to the side for
a second M and you have to look at the
what's happening on the ground right
with Ukraine and Russia because that
will determine whether Trump's going to
be successful in any move that he makes
so the problem that Ukraine is facing
right now is a they're going into winter
and
a massive percentage of their uh energy
infrastructure has been destroyed by by
Russia so it's going to be a very hard
winter um you look at the resolve of the
Ukrainian people
and
uh an Institute in ke does these very
interesting um surveys of Ukrainian
citizens in in in throughout Ukraine not
just in Kei on a regular basis and they
ask questions like you know um are you
willing to fight indefinitely are you
willing to stay in the game are you
willing to give it your all you know for
however long it takes and to that
question to that phrasing
at the beginning of the year 73% said
yes right of the
citizenry uh last month it was uh
63% right it's and so that's a 10% drop
is significant when we're talking about
the fate of your nation um
they they're
losing um they're losing soldiers at an
alarming rate and they have a
significant uh disadvantage to the
Russians terms of Manpower Russian
Manpower has depending on who you talk
to maybe a three to1 advantage in terms
of available
combatants
um the Russian military is gaining
ground in the eastern part of Ukraine in
theet in particular it's a the the the
front the front line is about 600 miles
long 620 miles
long um
in overall right now if you said stop
the war stop the fighting right now
Russia controls 20% of Ukraine good time
to my little map here so you can show me
what you're talking
about why why did Russia start this
war well I mean if you if you wanted a
sort of a theoretical 30,000 foot answer
um
Putin has
repeatedly uh referred to the collapse
of the Soviet Union as the greatest
disaster of the 20th century and he
meant it right and so he's been trying
and he hasn't been shy about it ever
since he's he's been in charge which
seems now like about 100 years um to
recreate the glory the strength of the
former Soviet Union in some capacity not
not you know entirely he's not he's not
crazy but
he is completely jonesing for some form
of of a of a stronger Russia um and in
his mind that means he's got to have a
buffer zone between him and NATO right
and so this is this is part of that he
also considers if you if you think about
it right
here he's basically
saying this is mine right if you think
that which is the east of this is this
is the Eastern part of Ukraine right
here is it's Ukraine um Front Line This
is not I mean you know I'm simplifying
this but front line stretches about 600
miles uh he's also annexed of course
Crimea but that's that's another issue
here and that's that's the only port for
their Black Sea Fleet which Ukrainian
military is frankly destroyed almost um
at this stage of the game but they own
at this stage they've got about
20% of of uh Ukraine if you were to say
you know stop the shooting now
and then the the the problem is that at
the outset of this this
war zalinski and the Ukrainian
government uh said you know the only
answer here is total Victory we have to
get all our territory back
Crimea detet Lans zapia uh we have to
get it all back and that is not again
it's not satisfying to say this but it's
not possible right so the problem that
is being faced right now
is when this war got started in the
first year year and a half everybody was
you know they were putting their Flags
Ukrainian flags on their porch they were
putting a little flag on their their X
site their Twitter site um they go okay
and there's no doubt the Ukrainian
military has been incredibly courageous
and the population of Ukraine has put up
with a great deal look the months of
September and October of this
year those two months there's only been
one night when keev hasn't been under
attack by Russian drones
right which is if you think about it
it's insane right and that's just Kei
they all their other their major cities
have also been under attack by the
Russians they've destroyed much of their
energy infrastructure um now a bright
spot was for for the Ukrainian military
was that they did a surprise offensive
into KK which is Russian territory and
in doing that that was the first time
there were foreign troops on Russian
Turf right since World War II um and
that really shocked the hell out of
Putin and and the Russian military and
they acted as if they really didn't know
how to resp respond didn't have the
resources to respond but this is a game
of attrition right we're going into our
you know full third year early this
coming year um
and what's kept them in the fight is US
support and EU or NATO support the eu's
done very good job I mean look they've
they've picked up uh a great part of the
of the the uh the
effort without that support this thing
would never have lasted lasted this long
never and so I think Putin in part has
been very surprised he miscalculated a
lot of things but he miscalculated the
sort of support that Ukraine would
receive from nato in particular um
and now and why is NATO giving so much
support why is this in their interests
well think about where Ukraine is yeah
think about where Poland is look Russian
missiles have flown errantly into into
Poland um their history tells them or
informs them that if Putin takes this
Ukraine yeah it takes Ukraine then it's
not as if he's going to say okay I'm
done I'm finished right they believe now
whether they're right or not this is but
this answers the question about why such
strong NATO support they believe that
that's not his inclination right it's
not in his his character to say that's
all I want I'm good what do you think I
take him at his word when he says he
wants to recreate the former Soviet
Union in a fashion do I think this is
enough of a buffer from NATO for him I
don't think so do I think he might uh
consider moving a little bit further
north look he already has this is
Belarus bellus is a solid Ally of uh of
Putin um but is there a chance that you
know he says to himself well well you
know maybe over here he's already made
verbal threats up here so L Latvia yeah
and so I I think I understand what their
mindset is it's like Israel right we
sometimes we like oh my God why is
Israel acting the way they do well
because they're surrounded by a ring of
terrorist proxy that all are there to
serve the purpose of the Iranian regime
which is to destroy Israel so that's
their mindset right we don't live there
we don't understand it so to say okay
well that's ridiculous for someone in
the US to go it's ridiculous that that's
Putin okay you know well [__] off you
don't live here right you're not in
Poland watching this if he takes over
Ukraine and so and world wasn't so long
ago exactly it wasn't until I studied
World War II which actually wasn't very
long ago it was about 6 months ago that
I understood the sort of geopolitical
backdrop as to why you need to defend
Ukraine because when you see you can
probably explain it better than me but
what Hitler did and he just took a
little bit was it like Czechoslovakia
just a little bit take this piece and a
little bit more and then he took a
little bit more and then a little bit
more and by by the end of it he was
trying to take the UK he was trying to
take Russia he was trying to take the
lot over here in the states right you
had this isolationist feeling so World
War II is happening um and they don't
want any of it right they've went
through World War I they sent a lot of
their boys over and they're like no
screw it you know look we got this big
ocean here you know we don't have to
worry about it and yeah that that was
that's a problem and but you see that
now there's some of this this
isolationist attitude which is why do we
even care and that's a okay fine that's
a great question to ask people should
ask questions like that but um yeah I'm
telling you having having worked against
Russia for for a long period of time U
it's a mistake not to take Putin at his
word right and and we tend to always
mirror our values it's like when we were
talking about the cab driver how do you
get him into a conversation you start to
mirror the values right and we do that
as a nation sometimes in the us where we
imagine that people are going to react
the same way or think the same way about
Freedom or democracy what and and it's
not how the world works so I just going
back here to to the incursion into um
into Russia that the Ukrainian military
did so they they've hold they're holding
territory up there maybe it depends on
who you talk to maybe um 500 square
miles it's it varies but they've
stretched their resources relatively
thin and that's a problem because it all
goes back to War as long as we've known
war which is supply lines right if you
if you can't maintain your supply lines
you you've you know lost the plot and so
what we're seeing right now is Putin has
amassed about 40,000 Russian troops and
about 10,000 North Korean troops and
that's another that's another story so
North North Korea because Kim Jong-un of
North Korea is best buddies now with
Putin he has sent upwards of 12,000
troops to Russia and they are now on the
front lines essentially they're already
in combat but they're an important part
of of of Putin's effort and I I think
what he's trying to
do Trump has won takes us back to our
original point of okay what's Trump
going to do and what's this going to
look like after the uh
inauguration Trump's one I think there's
a calculation here Putin could be saying
I've got to do everything now I've got
to throw everything I can to gain that
Russian territory back before sitting
down at a negotiating table and coming
up with a deal I don't want to sit at
the negotiating table if zinski and NATO
are saying we have part of your Russian
territory you want it back well we're
going to need we're going to need this
back we're going to need eastern Ukraine
back or we're going to need Crimea back
I don't think he's ever given back
Crimea right but it's likely I think if
you have to make these decisions and
without real insight into his mindset um
it's it's true it's all speculation but
I I wouldn't be surprised if what he's
calculated right now is I got to throw
all these troops to re gain this Russian
territory the ukrainians surprised Us by
taking ahead of sitting down and doing a
negotiated settlement which again is
going to be very unsatisfying to all
those people who put Ukrainian flags on
their porch and oh they're going to get
all their territory back no they're not
they don't have the ability to do that
and and I hope that what we don't see is
if Trump well when Trump comes into
office um I think he and the people that
he will have around him working on this
issue will be sufficiently convinced
that they have to maintain a level of
support that allows Ukraine to sit down
at the negotiating table from at least a
position of relative strength right um
otherwise they're just sitting and
they're asking you know for whatever
they can get in this deal and that's not
that's never going to sell zelinsky's
got to sell this to the the Ukrainian
population this is an incredible moment
in time right this is this is an
invading this is this is an invading
force from Russia into another country
an independent country
um and there's there there's so much
complexity it's hard to explain and you
know without saying okay we're going to
take the next five or six days to talk
about it but it's an incredible moment
in time and so yes it matters a great
deal about you know is this
consequential it's consequential if
worst case scenario um the next
Administration says that's it we're
cutting off all assist and all Aid well
the rest of NATO will definitely stay in
the game right because they view it
differently because they're right here
but us support is critical and it's
critical to
get a settlement and if what you want is
to end War to stop the the the
killing
um and if you're pragmatic you have to
you have to assume this is going to be a
settlement that means that Russia's
going to keep maybe not all of this
maybe they'll keep this much and this
will be maybe a demilitarized zone right
uh patrolled by un peacekeepers or
whatever to act as a buffer but then you
have other issues is Putin going to say
no part of this deal has got to be that
Ukraine never joins
NATO that's I'm sure that's going to be
a part of his deal um and then how NATO
deals with that I have no idea because
you know they've already made sort of a
guarantee okay you're going to be in at
some point anyway that's uh how do you
think it end if you had to be if you had
to bet I think uh look part of the
reason why um part of the reason why the
the North Korean troops have ended up in
in in Russia which is again is an
astounding thing um is because Putin
desperately doesn't want to do another
conscription he knows that's vastly
unpopular with his with his folks which
is when you ask your you basically
people round up more people right I'm
I'm going to need I'm going to need
another 50,000 soldiers because he runs
what's essentially called a meat grinder
operation he just throws people in the
front right as Canon F I mean the the
Russian casualty rate has been
ridiculous right compared to um the the
ukrainians but they've been willing to
sacrifice um all those people so I think
the the the idea being look Kim Jong-un
he's making money off of this deal
sending troops up there he's getting the
troops that survive anyway will get
combat experience and he doesn't have a
military with any combat experience
right now and he's also getting weapons
technology transfer from Russia so he's
getting part of a deal here what's Putin
getting I think Putin's just getting
bodies he can throw out there ahead of
the next wave which will be Russian
troops right so I think I think those
10,000 North Koreans uh soldiers are
[__] there's been a a rising sentiment
in the United States that we should stop
sending money to Ukraine and why are we
bothering and this isn't our problem etc
etc MH what do you say to those people
because that sentiment is rising and
it's rising from my opinion it's rising
on the right side of politics I hear it
more and more on some of the big
podcasts I hear it more and more on um X
and Twitter and again it's only because
I I researched what happened in Nazi
Germany in World War II that I suddenly
go this is much more complicated than
you think and you can embolden someone
if you don't resist their them invading
a local country yeah and why put one
right well look I mean this and and the
thing
is the world the world is shrinking
right the world is and has been and
continues to shrink nothing happens in a
bubble so what's happening right here is
being watched by uh you know xiin ping
in China right in terms of Taiwan I mean
he's sitting there saying okay here's
Taiwan there's a straight of Taiwan it's
no distance whatsoever he's just
conducted xiin ping and the Chinese
regime has just conducted the large lest
military exercise around Taiwan ever
basically blocking it off blocking the
ports and uh you know patrolling the
airs Airway uh Airway so the idea being
he just wanted to show that he could do
that right and so he's watching what's
happening over here in terms of the US
response and NATO response and and say
okay at what point does it make sense
for me to do this because at the end of
the day xiin ping is tied to his desired
Legacy which is the reunification and
and in his mind this belongs right here
and so so let's we'll move on to China
then um question was how do you think it
ends if you're a betting man how do you
think the Ukrainian war ends I think in
this coming year I think in part I know
I've talked a lot about what the
ukrainians are suffering from but
there's there are reasons why Putin is
going to need to uh figure this out as
well I think part of it is his economy
is is is suffering um
and so I think it finishes with a
negotiated settlement at some point
during 20 25 and I think that means uh
the lines are going to look again I keep
using the word unsatisfactory but that's
the way it's going to feel to a lot of
people uh the lines are going to look a
lot like they did before The Invasion uh
maybe a some additional territory being
held by the Russians and then I do think
that there will be some agreement to
have a buffer zone uh that will be
essentially under the opes of un
peacekeeping troops somehow
um you know no fly zone whatever you
want to call it as well I think that's
how it's going to end up I think K that
region in in in uh in Russia goes back
to the Russians I think that problem's
going to be I think in the short order
um I think they're going to want to move
quickly right before we get into the
teeth of winter um I think that's going
to be a mess so that's going to be a
major when they start that offensive and
we're talking again potentially 50,000
troops thrown at uh a relatively Thin
Line um I think that territory goes back
to Russia in the next
month I would I would suspect yeah I
mean basically you don't you don't put
troops there you know with all those
resources without intending to to use
them um and I think the longer those
North Korean troops sit there the more
trouble they will have in terms of
command and control so they're going to
want to get them into the uh into into
the cannon uh as quickly as
possible so you mentioned China China
feel like Taiwan is there Taiwan is this
little island off the coast of
China I hear about this um this plan
that they say China has which is the
2049 plan what is China's 2049
plan well part of that was based around
a timeline um for uh how we want to
refer to it the reunification the
absorption of Taiwan the taking over of
Taiwan nobody really knows what that
will look like because there's a a
concern um you know is it going to be a
completely kinetic is it going to be a
military operation uh is it going to be
more of a soft takeover uh sort of like
U you know there's it's a good example
right here Hong Kong um you remember
there used to be democracy in Hong Kong
and now there's not um and that happened
over a period of time but they basically
just squashed all remnants of democracy
particularly during the pandemic so
what's it going to look like when they
do take over Taiwan that's that's the
big question but the timeline has shrunk
so they now there's some feeling that
the movement on Taiwan will be during
the course of XI jinping's tenure right
so what are you looking at well that
depends on his grip on power which seems
very solid um it seems like it depends
on his health which you know again I be
speculating but so I don't see him
riding off into the sunset willingly
without finishing that project that in
his mind is so important um he's
Consolidated power in in China like
nobody
since Den jaia ping or or Mali dong you
know so I think um I think he's serious
again take take certain leaders at their
word some you know some Bluster a lot
some some make very big pronouncements
Donald Trump would be one of them who
tends to just speak off the cuff and
throw things out I think the danger
sometimes is is the the Dem democrats
for example take him at his word right
for everything he says right they take
everything he says literally um but
there are other leaders um Putin shiing
ping I think you need to pay real close
attention to exactly what they're saying
so I think when he talks about the you
know absorbing Taiwan and and making it
part of the motherland again I he's not
kidding around why does he want Taiwan
it looks like such an insignificant part
of that part of the map it's so small in
comparison to to China it's a good point
when you look at the map you go really
need to bother um you know what it's
part of it is is is the history right
and you know ever since the the you know
the Chen Kai Sheek and you know the
separatist and escaping to Taiwan and
raising it as a separate
nation it's
just it's it's hard to explain but it's
a very emotive subject right why does
the US care so much about
Taiwan um that's a better question too
um okay part of that
is part of that is uh I don't want to
say emotional but it's the idea of look
there Democratic
institutions um it's an ally you know
how could we possibly Stand By and Watch
a Communist Regime you know step on it
and and and destroy it part of it is um
practical it's like you know it's it's
an important chip manufacturing center
so you know there's a couple elements to
it um honestly look if if if all the
chip manufacturing on Taiwan was
reshored over to California somewhere um
would we care quite as much well we
would still care on that sort of
emotional values-based
uh
side we could probably we could probably
Overlook it in a long run now are we
going to send boots on the ground over
to defend Taiwan if there if there's a
military action uh um you know going
back to your betting person I would bet
no no matter who's in office but they
will say they're going to defend Taiwan
everyone all of the like the US
presidents are always asked would you
defend Taiwan if Russia invaded and
you'll probably know some of the quotes
better than I do but they've all said
that they would yeah yeah the only slip
up at one point was uh uh Biden where he
I don't think he really meant to say
what he said which was you know sort of
ambiguous towards the the defense of
Taiwan but then he corrected it um so
do I honestly think that we would send
uh troops over no no I don't um do I
think that we would do what we're doing
with Ukraine sure yeah would we provide
resources but this is a much different
uh situation right
um and so I
think while I get uh the concept uh I
just don't know that there's be follow
through
because that is a very tough cell to
explain why we're sending troops over to
face down the Chinese military which is
about a Stones throw away from Taiwan
and look this is going to be an
interesting situation right because the
folks over here the folks in
China they don't view the folks in
Taiwan as Taiwanese they view them as
Chinese right so are you going to have
you know Chinese military shooting
Chinese I don't know maybe it's going to
be a softer takeover maybe there's going
to there's more influence there's a
massive disinformation campaigns that go
on on Taiwan courtesy of the Chinese
regime there's all sorts of efforts
there to to
undermine uh Taiwanese leadership
but it this is again the point being is
this is a crisis look this is already
this is a mess and has been and it's
underway and it's in Ukraine situation
but over here this is looming right as a
major issue and and if you think about
the there other activities this is is
what's referred to as a South China Sea
right which is below Taiwan it is yes
and it's it's um this is the Philippines
here uh Vietnam over here China has
always viewed this as their territory
right this this is their backyard well
ever since World War II the US is
essentially patrolled and and maintained
Security in the South China Sea right in
the interest of international free trade
and you know freedom of movement
um there are increasing numbers of
encounters between the the Chinese Navy
and the Philippines uh Vietnamese over
um this this sea because again they view
this as theirs they're constantly in
here pushing they're building uh uh
artificial Islands there for ports um
there's there's a major flash point here
right for for potential
conflict and China I've talked to number
of experts that I really value and their
take is and I think it's not incorrect
is that China is basically on a war
footing with the West already right we
just don't see it or we don't feel it or
we don't want to acknowledge it and I
don't mean like they're going to launch
missiles but in their minds they're at
war with the US already and they're
they're acting in a sense as if that's
the case and we act as if well they're
just an economic competitor but it would
be nice if we could all get along
um so I think we may be misreading the
the tea leaves who's the the real enemy
of the West in your opinion who who
would you if you were the president of
the United States who would you be most
concerned
about well this is this is our biggest
this is our biggest concern right China
China is the is I think is the Topline
concern because of their their abilities
their resources um and you know again
the sort of the increasing
aggressiveness in this region um their
desire to uh reshape the the global
structure right they don't want the West
to be in charge they you know they view
this as you know how do we realign this
so that we get what you know the bricks
and and uh uh a different realignment of
of world order so that the US and its
allies are not at the top of the food
chain so in a sense that doesn't mean
that I think that we're going to be in a
in a in a shooting match with China
anytime soon I don't actually believe
that's going to be the case but that's
where we have to focus a lot of our
concerns when you talk about identifying
and resolving and you know prioritizing
threats um in the short
term um right here is
Iran
and look the Iranian regime has been
engaged in uh assassination plots to try
to kill uh now the president elect uh as
well as several other uh us officials
whom they uh believe were responsible
for the targeting back in 2020 of KM
solomani who ran the kuds force and was
a very close Ally of the supreme leader
Kaman in Iran you think Iran have tried
to kill Trump oh they have definitely
yeah there's no doubt that that they've
been engaged in they have a hit list and
they've actually been engaged in trying
to get uh plots underway um to uh you
know to uh Target not just him but Mike
Pompeo uh Mark Millie former head of the
or chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
Mark eser former Secretary of Defense
Brian hook uh and others so but I guess
you know from a setting that aside
setting aside the bizarreness of this
state with a hit list of US officials
right and that's just saying that out
loud should make people think well that
is bizarre but what they've done in
terms of uh establishing and building
over the years this this network of of
proxies thetis Islamic jihadah Kamas um
Iran has stated numerous times they've
been very clear about it their desire
their objective is to wipe Israel from
the face of the the Earth so they've set
up their proxies with the same objective
and the idea being okay we'll let the
proxies do the dirty work we're not
going to take accountability we're not
going to be in the direct line of fire
now that's happened a couple of times
right there's been this direct you know
back and forth between Iran and Israel
um so this is a this is a very serious
problem that will not be
resolved as long as the Iranian regime
and the Revolutionary guard Corps the
irgc maintain their belief system that
Israel needs to be wiped off the face of
the Earth as long as they believe that
they will continue to be the primary
cause of instability um in uh the Middle
East so we talk talk about getting
ceasefires in Gaza talk about ceasefire
with Hezbollah in Lebanon not that
there's much left of the hesah
leadership but that's just putting
lipstick on a pig right because you're
not solving the problem and you know I
don't know that you change the belief
structure of the Iranian regime and the
irgc so in that case what do you hope
for what you hope for internally that
there will be at some point the
population would just say we've had
enough right I mean there have been how
many cases do we need where you know
women go out on the streets to protest
right the new morality laws and they
disappear right they're just they're it
it's brutal yeah you don't hear any of
that you don't hear people you know you
don't hear activists in the States going
on college campuses and protesting the
treatment of of women in in Iran no it's
always you know God my god look what
Israel is doing those protests in Iran
do the United States fuel those protests
do they cause disinformation in that
country to try and stabiliz it to try
and get a coup so that they can throw
out the leadership is that how the world
Works um you know what it I'm going to
what I'm going to say I think a lot of
people who would look at my background
and go well of course that son of a
[__] is going to say that this is what
I would say is that what happens
um
is okay let me put it this way year in
years pasted yeah that's what would have
happened we would have tried to say okay
how do we get that that Uprising how do
we get that
but now it's more how do we get
information into those people and then
if there is a protest that develops how
do we support it what do you do to
support
that uh that I would argue has you know
not worked um the green movement and and
few other un you know unsuccessful
attempts by people to kind of get out on
the streets and protest have been
brutally put down and and the US and the
UN and others for the most part you know
they're going to protest and write a
nasty memo but none of it helps right
how do you get information to the people
in a country like that you know they
have they have access to some degree
most of it's locked down I guess but but
they have access to some degree so you
try to you try to push information out
look Voice of America is is probably the
best example over the years vaa was for
years its whole purpose was how do we
get information about what happens in
the world um into Russia into the Soviet
Union
and nowadays you know you could argue
you've got more possibilities because of
Technology U that's outside my scope and
we start talking about how do you you
know aside from dropping leaflets um
which which bizarrely enough in South
Korea and North Korea they still do
South Korea drops leaflets using
balloons over North Korean territory to
convince people that Kim Jong on is bad
and that life could be better um but
yeah I the the worst part is with Iran
is you just look these people are under
the thumb of the mulles in the
irgc and they are brutal right it's like
it's like Hamas Hamas has ruled Gaza
with an Iron Fist and they've been
brutal against anyone that they disagree
with
lgbtq activists women name them and and
yet you know you never see protests
outside the country about Hamas you know
how they beat um you know uh a gay
activist it doesn't happen right the C
campus protests are all about Israel
Israel is surrounded by a ring of of
proxies built by Iran that wants to
destroy them so yes they're going to
think differently than we do what
happened in
Israel on that day where I mean people
rushed into the their country and
thousands of people died yeah as of that
yeah their estimate was 12200 and then
uh 250 were dragged off into uh into
Gaza I just don't know how that that's
possible when that that state is so
unbelievably paranoid about invasions
and attacks and they have the the Iron
Dome how does that happen how do and
yeah it that was a um it was a
long-term uh project that was very well
orchestrated by Hamas uh with Iran the
rgc was fully aware of what was going on
the rgc provided some of the training to
some of the Kamas Fighters that
eventually ended up in inside Southern
Israel um so probably the best way to
put it would
be they lulled the Israeli government to
sleep and the the military to sleep they
made them believe that they really
weren't interested in violence anymore
and what that did and and that what they
really wanted was okay we just want to
like try to build up our economy right
and and try to make a better life well
that was horseshit on hamas's part
that's what the Palestinians would like
but that was horeshit on hamas's part um
what they were doing was
lulling them to sleep in that then they
kind of took their eye off the ball the
Israeli government in particular started
looking more inward you know you had a
lot of internal political battles going
on um and they were doing that because
they viewed that they didn't have the
same existential threat on their
doorstep that they had been dealing with
right they they sort of took the bait
and it was an intelligence failure
there's no doubt about it in part
because the uh the people running that
operation dumbed down their
Communications right they deliberately
stopped using Communications that they
felt could be compromised or had been
compromised and we we've seen that over
the years um Al-Qaeda is a good example
once Al-Qaeda understood uh the extent
to which we could intercept their
Communications you know they went back
to the old days right handing
handwritten notes right this is my
cousin I want you to take it to that
person over there who's his cousin only
give him that note right don't talk to
anybody very hard to intercept right
very and so you you no it's very hard to
conduct your operations it takes a lot
more time um but that's the extent to
which they went to try to get this thing
done and uh yeah unfortunately they were
very
successful how are you thinking about
the world's perception specifically the
United States perception of what's going
on in Israel and Palestine you know we
talked about how support seems to be
waning for providing support to Ukraine
is support waning do you believe for
Israel and the plight of Israel because
there's been a lot of information around
the amount of innocent people that have
been killed in Palestine yeah I would be
more concerned about um Ukrainian
support and I would be losing um the
level of Israeli support why because I
think um it's a little bit of a
different Dynamic right there's Israel
has always kind of had this this
interesting place within us psyche I
guess and um and it's also look there's
a massive Jewish American Community
right I mean there's no doubt about that
so there's there's a level of support
there that that Ukraine doesn't have um
and and also just the length of support
look we've been we've been close allies
of Israel for Generations right ever
since it it started uh you can't say the
same thing about Ukraine so I guess I'm
hopeful that moving into the next
Administration and I know people say oh
my God you know you sounds like you're a
warmonger well no again I go back to
with Ukraine if you want peace peace if
that's what you want if you don't want
the conflict then my argument is they've
got to be able to sit down at a
negotiating table if Putin feels like
he's winning right if he feels like the
US is backing off he's not going to
negotiate he's just going to move
forward he doesn't he doesn't give a
[__] about his soldiers he just keeps
throwing them into the front lines right
so if you want peace here then you need
to continue support sufficiently to get
them to the table and I do think we're
we're we're close because again I don't
you know Russia yes they're making
Headway here but a longterm you know
meaning another two or three years I
don't think I don't think Putin can
sustain that with the Russian population
so how does Israel palestine's war
end unfortunately I I again being a
cynic um I think it ends the way a lot
of these have ended which means we're
just putting a Band-Aid on a sucking
chest wound and they'll come up with a
ceasefire um I think Kamas they'll
figure out a way to bring in the
Palestinian Authority to govern Hamas or
sorry Gaza um I think uh I think sort of
the Lynch pin there is if they can get a
ceasefire with uh with Gaza with
Hamas that will make it infinitely
easier for the hooes to say okay we'll
back off we're not going to keep
screwing up the Red Sea firing missiles
at International Trade and us and Allied
naval ships and I think think that it
also allows for Hezbollah look I think
the Israelis look at Hezbollah
leadership now I think we've pretty much
taken everybody out
um and there's more of a structure in in
Lebanon I think it's it's always been
problematic but I think the Lebanese
government could um you know could deal
with the problem if there is a an
official ceasefire with hezb so I think
it all comes down to um
and I guess what I mean by the bandaid
on a second chest wound is that's all
well and good we'll stop the conflicts
right I think those will stop relatively
soon um I don't think Iran is interested
in getting into a bigger shooting match
with Israel because I I think they
understand there's no way they do that
without the US entering the US has
already got you know carriers forward
deployed out here a big show of force
right we moved B52 fortresses out there
nuclear capable not that that we would
drop nukes but it's a show of force
that I think Iran understands and the
mullers the mullers the irgc in
particular which has its fingers in
every part of the Iranian economy and
has made itself wealthy much like the
Hamas leadership made themselves Wealthy
by stealing billions that leadership in
Iran it's very similar to Putin in a
sense and very similar over here to xiin
Ping the one thing they want more than
anything else is to retain control so
the Iranian regime is going to look at
this and go can we really afford to get
into a shooting match with the US and
Israel and the answer is no they can't
win that so I think they're not inclined
to to do this so we're going to get
these ceasefires and then we're just
kicking the can down the road but if
they get nuclear weapons then they can
hold their weight absolutely absolutely
yeah and that will that will completely
change the the calculus in terms of how
do we deal with them and the negoti so
and again this going to make me sound
like a warmonger but that last um that
last um retaliatory strike by Israel
into Iran
they focused on Missile production
facilities and air defense systems
now that's smart in that destroying a
significant portion of their missile
production capabilities impacts their
ability to both attack directly Israel
but also then to provide those missiles
to their proxies the air defense You
could argue is setting the table right
if they decide that that breakout window
for the Iranian regime to get a nuke is
tightening uh to a point where it's not
really acceptable and if you've if
you've basically destroyed their defense
systems and they somewhat naked in that
regard then you're talking about you
know dropping and trying to disrupt
their their weapons capability the most
of that is significantly underground how
do we know they don't have a nuclear
weapon I don't think they could have
kept their Yap shut they would have told
us because for what you're saying which
is okay now what right um I don't think
that I don't think they could have kept
that secret plus also we rely on our
liaison Partners so the Israeli
intelligence Jordanian intelligence
Saudi intelligence we rely on a sort of
a input from a lot of the players look
the the Saudis the jordanians and others
would they be upset if the Iranian
regime would to change no they would
they would like what do they want they
want they want stability right because
that leads to economic Prosperity that's
better for their populations keeps their
folks happy um and so you know you know
are they going to come right out and say
it no but there's a lot of reasons so I
think the the the problem with these
ceasefires not again it's it's good you
want to end conflict um you don't want
people suffering it it would be
fantastic if the Palestinians had a much
better opportunity for a great life but
you don't get there as long as the
Iranian regime and and the irgc are
saying we want to destroy Israel so
we're going to keep pushing at it um
that's not really a recipe for long-term
stability so that's why I say they're
kind of key to this whole problem why is
the US so focused on Iran of all these
countries not getting a nuclear weapon
the US seem obsessed with making sure
Iran of all people don't get a nuclear
weapon well because they're the largest
state sponsor of terrorism is one issue
and um and they've shown it right I mean
they they've been perfectly willing to
look I mean the the fellow who was
killed in 2020 uh who was the head of
the goods force cassm
solomani uh and it was his targeting
that then created the supreme leader
desire and the Iranian regime's desire
to Target us officials including the
president-elect um he had the blood of
thousands of US soldiers on his hands
because he was running operations um to
develop IEDs uh and get them out in the
field uh train up uh Iraqi militias to
uh so I again they hate the US they hate
the US yeah so I look it's it
again going back to that same thing it'd
be lovely if we all lived in a community
of Nations but when I look at a map like
this I don't see a community of Nations
I see problems which again maybe makes
me just a cynical old bastard problems
you recently said we're in a more
sensitive time right now than in recent
modern times than we can recall and you
were referring here to nuclear
weapons people are normalizing the
limited use of nukes and that is
worrisome we've got Russia doing
tactical Nuclear drills on the border
alongside
Ukraine how can how concerned should we
be about nuclear weapons and why should
we be so concerned I actually didn't
realize until recently when I spoke to
Annie Jacobson that the president has
the sole responsibility and the sole
power to launch a nuclear weapon but
they don't have to speak to anyone to
launch a nuclear weapon they don't have
to have a meeting don't have to speak to
the house or the Senate they Trump could
turn around and say launch that nuke
yeah so could Biden so could you know
Barack Obama so could George Bush or
Ronald Reagan or you know let's go back
in in in time um look the Russians
created um what was referred to as the
Dead Hand system right which took people
completely out of the decision-making
process I mean if you want to talk about
something that's that's even more
frightening is let's remove humans from
the decision to launch uh the nukes
what's the dead it was what it was
referred to as it was the idea was
during the Cold War um the idea was
Kremlin started sitting around thinking
a little bit too much and they said well
what happens if if there's a first
strike and we're taken out meaning the
Kremlin meaning they leadership well H
okay well we need some system in place
an automated system that will respond
right um and so they created this system
that would luckily obviously never used
but it was referred to as the Dead Hand
system it was a it was a non-human um uh
decision-making process that would
assess the Damage Done in the first uh
strike and would then make a decision on
its own as to what to
do so that's a that's a problem but yes
and and that's still there uh no it's
not there supposedly they they've you
know advised us that it's been disarmed
some time ago um but you know again who
knows I mean and and again that's
another problem with AI and and you know
its ability uh to supplant humans you
talk about drones and taking humans out
of drone strikes you can't you can't do
that either you need to have you need to
have that element I think in in any
weapon system but yeah Russia talking
about and and um you know medev and
Dimitri pesov and and some of the other
minions for Putin rattling the nuclear
saber on on occasion uh doing their
tactical drills um you know obviously
North Korea who has nuclear weapons here
well I mean the members of the nuclear
Club um so I've got United States Russia
France China the UK Pakistan Pakistan
India uh yep India Israel we don't know
I mean that's a very I mean it's a great
point we assume but we don't know North
Korea because they've never yeah North
Korea yeah North Korea have got nuclear
weapons well
uh they don't have a delivery system so
they don't have a missile that can fire
right right and are they completely
there is is up for grabs so that program
isn't quite as well understood uh the
Iranian program is is a heavy lift in
terms of specific intelligence the
breakout window is often discussed but
it's anywhere from oh it's a couple of
weeks to it's months you know so that
tells you because of the Gap and that
and the parameters there that tells you
that maybe the intelligence isn't as
good as it should be just to give a
context on how powerful these weapons
are there was a stat I read that said
the Warhead on one US nuclear armed
submarine Marine has seven times the
destructive power of all the bombs
dropped during World War II including
two atomic bombs combined and the US has
10 of those submarines MH yeah where are
we closer now to nuclear war than we've
ever been in the last
century no um I think we were closer in
the in the height of the Cold War I
think um there it really was I mean it
was
are you know top of Mind people
literally thought we were going to get
into a a a shooting match with the
Soviet Union and I think we were close
on on occasion so I wouldn't argue that
we're it's more prevalent right and and
by that I mean there's more of them um
than there were at that point there's
more members of the nuclear Club um but
I that was at a point in time when I
think we were much closer because also
in part we there wasn't the
understanding the level of communication
that exists there look there's still a
lot of you know there's there's even
when it seems like two nations are at
odds you know I think sometimes people
don't understand how much communication
still exists off the radar between
militaries between Intel
organizations um people understand that
the the risk but I my point is when you
talk about it a lot when you when you
threaten it you're you're normalizing it
and I think that that could lead us down
a very bad path um and then if if the
Iranian regime were to get nuclear
weapons
um are they are they on the logic train
you know or do they view this as
something that they they use as leverage
to exert uh to get uh concessions from
Israel whatever those might be I I don't
know I think there there would be an
unknown player in that realm and I think
that causes some of this concern also as
to why it's felt they shouldn't have it
and also if they announce they announce
that they have a nuclear weapon then you
can count on the Saudis saying to
themselves me too right I'm I'm going to
get them so I'm not going to look the
it's not as if the Saudis and the
Iranians are are you know close friends
there becomes a Tipping Point here
doesn't there where you know Iran gets
their nuclear weapons Saudi want a
nuclear weapon and then you know most of
the countries in this region and other
parts of the world think well we need
one now we need one and the Israelis
maybe that's the moment when they come
out and say and confirm whether they do
or don't and they're not going to
confirm that they don't um yeah so I
think it there there's some real
problems there look it's it's bad that
anybody has them obviously everybody
wants peace but you have to deal with
the world you got not the one you hope
for it's interesting when I think about
the biggest risk to the world and I
think about all the potential things
that could happen we could have a solar
flare there could be I don't know
whatever could happen there's a meteor
of death too a meteor for that yeah
global warming could do it the thing
that seems to be so obvious to me is if
you get more and more nuclear weapons
and you've got more and more of these
sometimes crazy egotistical leaders who
are aging and they're trying to hang on
to their power and then you throw in AI
which is a kind of sentient being that
can think for itself for me I go I don't
know in the next hundred years there's
got to be an incident there's got to be
an incident because like
probabilistically this many weapons this
many crazy leaders this much disruption
to technology you know people not
wanting to let go of their power
something's going to go wrong it might
be a mistake or something but all it
takes is one missile to fly or one
person to think that a missile's flying
right or you get one Broken Arrow uh you
get one um one missing nuke right gets
in the wrong hands how about the story I
think was it in Hawaii when Hawaii's
missile detection system went off one
day and they thought that they were
about to be hit by a yeah exactly think
about what those people went through and
it wasn't like a minute or two I I think
it I forget what the the length of time
was before they got the all clear 30
minutes I think roughly yeah I mean
where everyone in Hawaii thought that a
missile was about to them and I heard
the stories of people trying to decide
which kid to go to and hiding in
cupboards and going out on the beach and
praying and and uh just so everyone
knows hiding in a Cupboard is not going
to
be and that was just because one person
in a office somewhere clicked the wrong
button yeah and that sent that nation
into Panic so you can imagine in Iran
someone accidentally clicking the wrong
button or or deliberately clicking the
wrong button or or whatever I just think
it's you get um look there's always this
concern concern right I mean Russia has
moved you know some of its Arsenal to
bellarus well you know okay what happens
if you know one of those goes missing or
what happens if if a non-state actor uh
organization gets a hold of one of
Pakistan so there's a complete Fallout
in the Pakistan government and suddenly
you've got a very hostile government
that you know has control so yeah it's
it's it's an issue uh you have to ask
yourself sometimes why would you want to
be a world leader what is your biggest
concern as it relates to the map but
also technology and the future that
we're heading towards what's your
biggest concern I don't know that that's
a that's a really interesting question
and I know I should have like a a pat
answer right off the top of my head um I
tend
to I tend to look at at
uh the next big global conflict so I'm
not so much I again don't get me wrong
these are bad right these potential
flareups these problems this conflict
here in the Middle East these are all
bad people are suffering
but I think about the next actual global
conflict and when that occurs right just
like another pandemic's going to happen
right it's it's not like we're not going
to get another pandemic um when the next
big global conflict occurs I think what
we're going to find is that the pain has
brought to the Homeland a lot quicker
right so what I mean by that is uh say
you're in the US well we know that
Nations that don't necessarily have us
interests at heart China let's let's
let's focus on China because they are
you know close to the top of the Heap
and they're motivated to get to the top
um not again not saying it's going to be
a shooting match but the point being is
every day uh the critical infrastructure
critical systems in the US are being
tested and poked and prodded and looked
at and mapped out and there's a reason
why that happens right so they're
developing A playbook that says in the
event that it should happen and we have
a global conflict we are going to shut
down everything we can shut down in the
US suddenly all power goes off your
water treatment facilities aren't
working you can't move fuel around you
can't get fuel Pharmaceuticals aren't
being delivered no food is being
delivered can't get cash out whether you
want cash or not at that point um the
idea being is we're going to bring the
pain to the Homeland right immediately
that's what you want to do and will
there be a a Connecticut element will
you actually have a shooting match with
you know troops on around yeah I'm not
sure that ever goes away but the next
global conflict is going to be fought in
a way that that we have a hard time
understanding and then it'll be up in
space as well they've you know the
Chinese have spent a great deal of
effort on uh directed energy weapons and
one of the points of that is essentially
to knock out Satellite Systems right you
think about you take away take away
satellite structures you know whether
it's starlink or or any of the satellite
systems up there you shut down GPS right
people can't move you shut down the
internet my God people are losing Lo
their minds right um can't do Tick Tock
and uh so it's you know not to make
light of it because we're talking about
a different type of warfare and so
that's kind of the thing that I worry
about if you if you said what are people
really worry about well yeah top
concerns always you know China and
Russia and Iran but it's the
infrastructure and it's a way that it's
going to be brought to the Homeland
that's going to create I think a level
of pain that most people aren't going to
be willing to put up with for very long
when you say they're going to bring pain
to the Homeland were you saying the US
were going to shut down their
infrastructure no I'm I'm saying that
whoever again I'm just as a u it could
be any you know it could be the EU in a
conflict it could be the US and nato in
a conflict with another but the point
being is that you know they don't they
don't map out infrastructure for for no
reason at all who's mapping the
infrastructure uh well Russia China okay
there might be our infrastructure our
infrastructure we're doing the same
thing people always say they say well
you're doing the same well you better
hope that whether it's the UK or whether
it's Australia whether it's us that you
hope that we're engaged in the same
activities because that's where this is
is is going to end up going um having
said that you know if someone had said
we're going to be engaged in a massive
land War World War I Style with with
trenches and very little ground gain and
and lots of bombardment over people
would said nah that's never going to
happen again but that's happening in
Ukraine right now it's happening in
Ukraine you can go you know the Imperial
War Museum in London which is a
wonderful Museum they've got a World War
I exhibit and you go through the World
War I
exhibit and you you you look at it and
you realize the same thing is taking
place you look at the aerial photographs
of the front line and you see the trench
lines here in in in Ukraine it's it's
stunning and we're just making the same
mistakes over again it's funny how
history has a strange way of repeating
itself yeah because we don't we like to
think that we learn but we're dealing
with the same old humans with the same
old emotions and Egos and ideologies and
stuff over and over again so it's
because humans haven't changed you're
right you're absolutely yeah that's
right how are how are you preparing on a
personal level if if you're seeing that
some of these a lot of guns and ammo
really no I'm kidding well no I'm not
kidding but that's not how I'm preparing
I just like to you know load up because
you're saying you don't believe
Americans and you know westerners really
understand how the next big global
conflict will
look yeah so is there a way they can
prepare for such a conflict well well on
one level uh
you know people need to read as much as
they can and and pay attention right I
mean get as many different sources of
information don't just read one outlet
that you happen to agree with um but you
know try to be as informed as possible
um which uh you know I think sometimes
it's difficult to do because we're all
busy right we're all putting food on the
table and trying to take care of
families and whatever but um so I think
there's there's an element of of folks
just trying to be informed
and then you know that would be look I
mean the pandemic that occurred the
covid-19
thing if if people were really really
watching what was going on you know
October 2019 right there was you there's
this weird situation going on in China a
couple of cities were were quarantined
and that started to Bubble Up and and
people were paying attention to it I I
was getting notifications about you know
what the hell's going on in China um
well before there was any Declaration of
a problem right and so and and and the
Wuhan lab was mentioned
repeatedly um so I think just being
informed is one of the best things that
people can do and then you know I'm not
a prepper um but it's always good just
to you know be prepared for a natural
crisis right power goes out because
there's a blackout fine you know there's
a you know whatever the reason may be um
just just be a little aware of and have
a plan of some sort that says if there
is a natural disaster not saying a
shooting match then what do I do what's
my C plan I got kids at school how do I
reach them we're so unprepared because
in our lifetimes we've never had a war
so we I grew up I'm about 32 years old
now I assume Wars happen in other places
they don't happen in the UK or in LA or
New York they happen over there so I'm
comfortable and I'm complacent to some
degree MH like I could never imagine
even a adversarial plane flying over my
city yeah there's a there's a level of
uh We've we've all
gotten we've all gotten I don't want to
say soft necessarily but look every
generation wants it to be easier right
my parents uh were older when they had
me they they were born in 1919 and 1920
right and they went through the um you
know the tough times Economic Times They
went through you know a couple of wars
um they wanted it better for their kids
right now you know their parents my
grandparents wanted it better for them
right and so on and so you that's human
nature you want to be doing the best for
your kids you want it to be better for
that generation I think eventually you
reach uh diminishing returns right and I
do worry that that's kind of where we're
at I you know I look at my own kids and
look nobody's out there you know in in
in here or over here or whatever there's
there's certainly places in the world
where that's not true but you know the
these areas here that we're talking
about we're not out worrying about
whether we can collect enough food and
clean water necessarily you know we're
worried about um you is my Wi-Fi signal
strong enough but it's interesting when
you were talking about Israel earlier
you said how Israel had got a bit
comfortable so they started infighting
right and what you're seeing over in the
United States and other parts of Europe
is infighting it's like we've got
nothing better to do so we're arguing
over identity politics and are getting
more woke and it's more divided because
I don't know it's like we have nothing
better to do right and also that's being
fueled look they you never want to
underestimate the impact of the
disinformation campaigns run by I mean
again I keep going I sound like I'm just
constantly throwing out the same bogey
man but look it's that's the way the
world is China Russia in particular Iran
has proven itself to be very Adept at
this at disinformation campaigns that
prey on whether it's in in the EU or
whether it's in the US or elsewhere that
prey on what they view as
vulnerabilities so it goes back to what
we were talking about before about
recruiting an asset right or identifying
weaknesses and leverage well they look
at the US and they go you know what if
we if we kind of just keep poking at
that racist issue we keep you know
poking it at woke issues right I mean
that's very divisive and it's and it
does right it works so the next thing
you know they're they're putting
together a a a bot they're throwing out
some misinformation or disinformation on
on X someone looks at that and goes yeah
that's that's right then they just
forward it on to their friends and their
family and it just keeps building so the
the the those campaigns have a a real
significant impact on on on the west
because we're not inclined for whatever
reason we're not curious enough or we
don't have enough time or whatever to
look at a piece of information and go is
this even credible what you say to
people that think that's just completely
impossible it's a conspiracy theory
there's no way China and Russia are
involved in misinformation there's no
way they're trying to tear us apart yeah
uh you know what all they need to do is
is a little uh fact-based research spend
a little time they don't have to look at
one side or another look across the
board at at at a variety of of uh uh
think tanks and research institutes that
that focus on this sort of thing and no
there's look there's there is no doubt
there is a a a concerted effort to
influence whether it's an election and
and they're not trying necessarily to
get anybody to win they're just trying
to undermine the the the the concept of
democracy they want to create some chaos
that that's from their perspective
that's a win so do you know Russia
wanted Trump to win that's a good
question I don't know if they did I
think they've made a mistake or they've
calculated wrong here because I know
there's sort of a Trope out there that
says well he's Putin's puppet well we
also have to remember that was a very
large disinformation campaign or
misinformation campaign you know I don't
want to make it sound more nefarious but
people swallowed that Hook Line and
Sinker and then ran with it right over
this idea that uh oh my God look at the
dossier so I think um I you know there's
there's sort of this narrative that says
okay well yeah Putin definitely wanted
Trump to win because Trump's going to
completely get out of Ukraine I don't
think that's going to happen um and you
know there's already been reporting that
he had a call with uh with Putin already
now the Kremlin saying oh that call
never happened but according to Western
reporting he had a call and he said you
are not to to uh intensify this War uh
and then basically setting down a marker
now again we won't know until we know
until you know he gets out there and he
starts you know putting more people in
place I'm very curious to see who he
puts in in at the Pentagon at sorry at
the defense department but um because if
I was Putin I know Trump has ran his
whole campaign saying he's gonna end
this war and if I'm Putin I go that
means that I don't have to throw more
men at the front line I can get my
economy back Putin also wants to end
this war but Trump if Trump doesn't end
that war in the next four years the
Democrats are going to get in because
they're going to say you said you were
going to end the war with out there
fighting you said you're going to end
this but think about it if he does end
the war then they're going to say well
yeah that's because you know you and
Putin like each other and and yeah and
you gave away you know some Ukrainian
territory well the reality is look Putin
he he annexed crimeia during Obama's
administration he invaded during Biden's
Administration he knew what he had he
knew what the response was going to be
now now look people say well you know
Biden you know to his credit you know he
kind of rallied and he pushed for more
support and yes that's absolutely true
but Putin engaged in this during his
time right because I think he knew or he
felt he knew maybe that's more important
he felt he knew what he was going to get
now he wasn't anticipating that NATO
response was going to be his Hardline
and that's a good thing I'm glad that
Biden has done that Biden has also
withheld authorization to use long range
Munitions to Target Russian military
sites that are being used to Target
Target Ukraine right now you could argue
that until Putin feels some pain or
Ukraine is in a better offensive
position of some sort that you can't get
people to the negotiating table and
again if you want to end the conflict
you're probably going to want to do that
uh unless you just want Putin to overrun
Ukraine if you want to if you want that
to happen then stop support and that's
what's going to happen but I think you
know the the the narrative I think is a
little bit off I'm not because yeah
you're right if if the war continues
right I'm not sure the Democrats have as
much you know to to play off of but I
think if if the war is ended then I
think what they'll say is H you gave it
away acting as if somehow Ukraine could
have won and gained all their territory
back which is unrealistic I think it's
more more compelling to say we stopped
all the wars and I think for Americans
right now I think they want to look we
saved your money we stopped sending
billions there we stopped the war people
aren't dying anymore I think that's much
more compelling narrative then I don't
think Americans care as as much this is
a guess about giving away a little piece
yeah okay I yeah I was I you're right I
that was my mistake I think you're
you're right in the sense that um if the
war is still ongoing yeah the Dems have
the Democrats you lied you said you shut
it down in day one yeah no I see what
you're saying from an electoral
perspective down the road uh four years
from now wow 2028 so if I'm Putin I'm
going I know Trump he's got he's
incentivized to stop this thing and you
know I can so that that puts me in a
stronger position because if Trump
doesn't stop it then maybe Eric Trump's
not going to get in next year or whoever
or JD Vance is yeah I mean I think Putin
also I think is smart enough to to
realize to remember that um it was the
Trump Administration that authorized
lethal Aid to Ukraine to begin with uh
the back during Obama Biden years they
did not authorize lethal Aid into
Ukraine and despite um despite uh
apparently crime annexation was going to
be a red line and it wasn't there's no
safe like a Simply Safe the sponsor of
today episode and who this next story is
brought to you by there's something I
never told you guys that happened a
couple of years ago right here in the
Dio Studio you might remember that when
I said we'd lost the audio files for
Mel's episode who was a former Spice
Girl I didn't say how or why we'd lost
the audio files well the reason we lost
the audio file was because someone broke
into our studio at night time and stole
all of our cameras and a few of our key
hard drives which contained those audio
files it was a shocking day and it led
us on a quest to figure out how to
secure our building and that's when I
discovered Simply Safe who are now a
sponsor of this podcast interestingly we
did have security at the time but the
type that we had only triggered an alarm
once Intruders were inside the building
what I like about Simply Safe is their
active guard outdoor protection which
notifies you and their live monitoring
agents when suspicious activity is
detected outside of your building
especially if it's an unfamiliar face
and most security providers don't have
the type of AI technology it also means
that guards can trigger alarm systems or
turn on spotlights which deter Intruders
from entering your property in the first
place if we'd had Simply Safe installed
at the time it likely means that we
would have known earlier that Intruders
were trying to get into our building at
3: in the morning and we could have
acted to secure the building straight
away so this is your reminder to make
sure your home and workplace is secure
Simply Safe as offering my listeners in
the United States an exclusive discount
of 60% off your new Simply Safe security
system when you sign up for a select
professional monitoring plan you'll also
get your first month free just visit
simply.com diary to customize your plan
right now and remember there's no safe
like a Simply Safe we mentioned
disinformation Tik Tok mhm I mean Tik
Tok has ties to China has Origins to
China right do you think Tik Tok
is the the interesting thing about Tik
Tok so I worked in social media for 10
years is Tik Tok as a platform the
algorithm is so
unbelievably a addictive um what how
would I describe it I guess the word is
the algorithm is so powerful and you
notice this anyone that uses Tik Tok
you'll notice this because if you post
something on your page and you have a
million followers the post could either
get a th000 views or 10 million views
and when when I think about algorithms
the variance in views you're getting
basically are an expression of how
powerful the algorithm is so on
Instagram say you have a million
followers and you post something the
variance between how many views you're
going to get is quite low but on Tik Tok
it's wide so what the algorithm is doing
is it's saying take that and show
everyone take this show no one and what
this means is that the so this is why
it's so addictive to young people
because everything they're seeing is
really really interesting stuff and they
care a lot less about how many followers
you have and it's more about is this
really really interesting so as a as a
platform it's super addictive it can put
you in an echo chamber faster than
anything because if I'm looking at
videos about I don't know X it's going
to keep showing me the most interesting
emotional fear Centric videos about that
thing no boring yeah you're going to see
no boring so do you think there's a
chance that Tik Tok is is being used by
one of our foreign adversaries to divide
us oh sure yeah I think I think social
media is look in the old days if you
wanted to influence hearts and Minds if
you wanted to change uh uh say you were
interested in in uh turning the
population in where Kenya you know
Nigeria ner um then it was kind of old
school stuff right you would how am I
going to get um information out there
I'm going to I'm going to recruit a
bunch of journalists right local
journalists and I'm going to get them to
publish stories right maybe there's a
radio station I'll recruit somebody who
can put stories on the radio technology
has given uh the ability to do covert
action campaigns um propaganda
disinformation whatever you want to call
it um you know a real jump start right
so the concept is the same I'm trying to
influence opinion I'm trying to you know
get viewers whatever it is um trying to
change hearts and Minds
but uh you can do it much faster right
and and that's the type of thing the us
would have done to their adversaries
right the US would literally send a
entrepreneur undercover into these
countries to start a perfectly
legitimate business with his family
they'd find a way to potentially fund it
in some way to make sure it was
successful and he might be starting a
social media app in Russia undercover
like that's the type of thing the CIA
and other you know maybe m
other would do it's um you're looking
for ways to I mean you wouldn't
necessarily want to say okay I'm going
to go into China I'm going to go into
Russia and start a a business right
because now that's that's problematic
from an operational perspective right
but you're going to use the technology
for sure to get to as many eyeballs as
possible and so yes I mean you know Tik
tok's a a great example of that there's
a reason why you Chinese citizens can't
access Tik Tok inside China right I mean
if you think about that is this is Tik
Tok you know uh is is it uh is it
beneficial to our kids well if it was
Tik Tok could probably be available
inside China uh but it's not um it's a
it's it's a tough one I we deal with
that on a personal level all the time
trying to you know figure out how much
screen time you know and what the what
the kids can access now they're getting
older so it's you know you're kind of
fighting a losing battle on that one
some people think that there's like a
back Channel where t um China are
harvesting data from the back end of Tik
Tok in some way and I you know much like
you I'm less likely to believe those
kinds of conspiracy theories but one
theory that makes logical sense to me is
if I was China and I wanted to sew
division in the United States what I
would do is make an make an app a social
media app that has a really really
powerful device of algorithm which
really really is strong and I would just
make it succeed in the country I don't
need the data because what as you said
what I'm going to do is I'm going to
Pop I would say yes that's that's the
that's a a good point and you see that
based on what you're saying I don't have
anywhere near the level of understanding
of of the app world but but you see that
when you you know um just say okay oh
I'm interested in that look at that
there's a protest over here right next
thing you know you're getting you know
40 protest uh videos or whatever um but
I would say also they still want data
right they they thrive on collecting
Mass amounts of information and so um
you know I again I I'm don't know that
that Tech world uh well enough to to get
into a conversation about that but it is
it is clear based on their uh economic
Espionage and efforts over the past that
they love nothing better than to collect
as much information as possible and it
doesn't even have to be on a Target that
you think know no wonder they're they're
targeting Ron or they're targeting a
company that makes sense they'll go
after anybody really um and it is yeah
so I but I I think for the most part
when you talk about um social media what
I worry about the most is this tendency
for people not to question not to be
cynical or not to be at least curious
and say where's this come from and if
they if if everyone would just do that
because there is no other defense at the
end of the day you don't want the
government telling you what you can see
and what you can't see I don't think
anyway but there's no there's no other
defense in the front line which is the
individual with their smartphone looking
at something and saying and then
stopping for at least a moment to say
where's this information coming from is
it credible let me check uh elsewhere
before I send this on to my family right
and create you know more conflict just
just take the time to be quizzical it's
difficult because we all have like
confirmation bias right so we're we're
looking for what we want to believe true
and so it's just thinking about that you
just see it you saw it in this election
cycle if that is what I wanted to
believe and what I think is um right
then I think that's true and I will
share that and you see it in the
election cycle as someone who is this
sort of outside Observer I'm watching
disinformation on both sides I'm
watching them lie about Trump and I'm
watching them lie about Kamala on both
sides and I'm watching it happen and
going oh no that's a lie that's a lie
that's a lie that's a lie that's a lie
but both sides are enraged and they
think they're the the sort of Bastion of
truth it's so interesting but the the
hard edges are are equally problematic
right and the problem we have is you
know much much like the conflict in
Ukraine on the front lines in the
trenches there people are sitting in
their trenches throwing hand grenades at
each other and there's nobody living in
the middle anymore right and you know
it's almost become a a nasty word to say
compromise but I don't know how you get
meaningful things done you know without
the ability to listen to to both sides
and say okay well that that idea
actually kind of makes sense or that
idea doesn't make sense but but at least
to work together but nobody is in the
center for the most part or if they are
they don't make any noise right random
idea random thought I just had um Scott
Gallow was on my podcast and he said
there's a 33% chance that Trump dies in
office based on his age in
BMI like statistically he's he's the age
he's at and the the BMI he has there's a
33% chance he dies while he's in the
next four years I just
wonder what that might do to this whole
thing because if if Trump drops dead one
day in the United States people aren't
going to believe that was
innocent the destabilizer I just you
know the one of the one of the best
results that came out of this election
was the size of the result right that
was important regardless of who won and
you know I had I don't know how many
conversations with a variety of people
on the you know on both sides of the
spectrum of the politics and and they
all kind of felt the same way which was
okay well whoever wins I just hope it's
convincing so that we don't then
struggle with this over the next four
years um but you're right we what
happens in the next four
years I've got my own theory of how it
plays out but yeah um I think um Again
part of it depends on on how good the
Democrat party is at at introspection
not very good not very good I don't
think so uh but I don't think it's it's
still the government right it's still
the US government and we have to
remember people are you know they're
very upset about the idea that oh my God
you know maybe the Republicans have all
three they have the white they have the
Congress they have the Senate um but
that's been the case
for many going back I don't know how
many administrations but several at
least five or six where the president
started out with control of both houses
and so you know the lesson from that
usually is that uh not a lot really gets
done it's still a very large machine and
so I know people are you know look they
they spent people spent a long time
saying if Trump wins it's the end of
Life as we know it it's the end of
democracy oh my my God this is going to
be and then you know a day and a half
later President Biden you know comes out
and goes you know we're going to be just
fine then people are like well what the
[__] was all that talk about the end of
the world then right it's politics it's
a narrative but it's gotten so um
hyperbolic there's just like this you
have to take it to the far extreme no
matter what you're saying right and so
then now people have a hard time
absorbing that well but you told me to
to go out in the street and Rend my
clothing and cry and Nash my teeth and
and now you're telling it's going to be
okay what you know so I think we're
going to be just fine and we would have
been just fine if we had the other it's
a very resilient Nation it's a despite
these things that we've been talking
about it's a pretty resilient world
right so um I think you know there's not
going to be we're not going to see 10
million people deported for instance
right I don't I don't think that's going
to happen will we have a tougher border
policy will there be some deportations
yes will they start with uh folks who
are in the country illegally who have
committed crimes well yes is that a
problem uh I I don't know is anyone
upset if someone who's got a criminal
convictions and is here illegally is
deported you know I guess maybe there's
maybe there's some issue there but um
you know is so I
think we tend to get so over the top on
whether we're talking about left or
right that the reality is
usually there's not the sea change that
people anticipate so I think we're going
to be okay that's why I I'm still I'm
optimistic that this next Administration
will hold the line realizing that
holding the line is the best way to get
folks to the table to come up with a
settlement in Ukraine and Russia in
Ukraine and Russia sorry exactly and you
know again I'm more cynical about this
region just because I think nobody
really wants to deal with the Iranian
regime and so fine yes we get ceasefires
doesn't mean anything in the long term
no we'll be dealing with this conflict
you know our kids will be dealing with
this conflict um so I'm a little bit
more reluctant to to say happy things
about that um anyway kids just to close
off if you were had to give your
children advice on how to be successful
based on everything you learned at your
time in the CIA on how to climb whatever
ladder that they aspire to climb in
their life what would you say to them uh
well I'll tell you what I do say to them
which is
my job as a parent is not to raise uh
average kids there's enough
mediocrity uh out there right my job is
to raise exceptional children and that
means they have to not give it 150% I
don't know what that is and people talk
about that you got to give 110% but you
have to work a little bit harder than
everyone else right and your gain your
result is is that much more it's it's
it's it's really shocking you just have
to work a little bit harder and you can
always do a little bit more than you
think you can do right um it's hard to
explain that to kids because they think
they're bulletproof they think they've
got uh you know 2,000 years ahead of
them they they don't understand how time
passes but if it's if it's one thing I
tell them I mean aside from the basics
you know just be honest be loyal uh be
kind um it's this idea you just you have
have to put in the effort and if you do
you can I don't want to say you can do
anything you you probably don't have the
genetic build of LeBron James right so
you're probably not probably not doing
what he's doing
but that's that's it it's and and I
always felt it's just it's it's a it's a
simple thing but if I've learned one
thing in in whether it was in the agency
or out all you got to do is work a
little bit harder what about people
advice you give them to you know cuz I
spoke to Andre bustan in the podcast and
he talks about motivation and
manipulation being two sides of the same
coin when you think about what stands in
the way of your life when you think
about the sort of geopolitical issues
where we were describing it's all just
people your business at the moment is
people my business is people even doing
this podcast it's trying to understand
people um one of the things I got from
you which I think is just really
unappreciated is just the remarkable
power of just list listening and let
letting someone else talk so you can
understand them is there anything else
you think about if you're trying to
create a good sales person um as it
relates to
people you can't I suppose a psychotic
or could but you you can't fake um
empathy you can't fake um real interest
right you can't fake um uh enjoyment of
people right and and I I do think folks
even if they're not trained they're
they're they're pretty good at spotting
that bad right there pretty good
spotting if people are being uh
disingenuous
so um it's it's really it's really that
I mean you have
to with with I mean I don't want to
dwell too much on business but in that
world when I'm talking to my folks um I
just know some of them aren't going to
enjoy the process of sales if we're
talking about sales they're not going to
enjoy going out and doing business
development but they do an amazing job
on the other as ects of the work right
and all that work keeps clients coming
back right so it's horses for courses I
you know I I think you know people are
made up differently and and you can't
ask everyone to do the same thing um the
only things you can control I keep going
back to the same thing with because I
keep thinking about my kids now that we
talked about them is they can't like the
middle boy you know he plays basketball
it's all he wants to do he plays
basketball he goes to an academy down in
Florida IMG which is an amazing place
and it's a sports academy for the most
part um
and he can't control how tall he is
right how how I mean he can work on how
fast he is I suppose but you know those
sort of things but he can control how
hard he works and he can always work
harder than the next guy you you think
about it I've been in situations before
where I thought I cannot take one more
step and then you think well yeah I can
take one more step right it's not it's I
know again this is not an epiphany but
people forget that right people
sometimes lose sight in part because
they're not pushed or they're not
challenged or the circumstances mean
that they don't have to be pushed or
Challenge and so people get away from
understanding exactly what they're
capable of accomplishing if they really
think about it so that's all I I all I
ask for my folks is is you know be
honest work hard um keep the clients
happy and you know Bob's your uncle but
um you know people right now are going
Mike that's it that's your advice Bob's
your uncle
you said you like you like you think
life is much more simple than most
people portray and I think hard work is
definitely one of those things that um
is both controllable and it creates such
a disproportionate winning advantage
that's exactly right that's a much more
elegant way than if you're not I'm to
I'm going to steal
that but it does yeah but it's it does
and and it's not sexy because who wants
[__] hard work people want tricks and
TI there's got to be some so what do you
do how do you how do you tell if
somebody's like no just you know what
just yeah unass the sofa work a little
bit harder and you're right it's not a
popular thing to say um but I think
people are capable of it and more so
than they realize we have a closing
tradition on this podcast where the last
guest leaves a question for the next not
knowing who they're leaving it for and
the question that's been left for you is
what do you think is the most important
thing that has happened in your life to
create your
success wow you obviously have some
smart guests on here I'm I'm already
jumped to the next point where I'm like
ah what's your favorite
color um you know what the thing I would
have to
say um this is going to
sound what's it going to sound like I
don't
know I think I
um
had I think I had the probably the best
parents that you could ask for I had my
dad was an amazing individual amazing
individual
and they I think more than anything
right if I I have to go all the way back
look meeting my my wife Emily I mean
she's the smartest person I know uh the
funniest person I know so but you know I
met her you know going on 20 years ago
now so what happened before the 20 years
and what happened leading through if I
you know if I said that then you know
the first half of my life I think it was
my parents right and no doubt about it
my dad uh was just uh such a uh role
model and and just laid a foundation um
but I would say then the next half would
definitely be uh my wife I think it's
that's what does it as the people what
was the model that your dad left
you part of it was the work ethic my dad
worked hard um and he he never
complained right he he didn't and he and
he loved my mother just they were
married for 50 years and that was part
of it too is I was fortunate I was
blessed and and I realize it's it's you
know a lot of people come from very
different circumstances but I came from
one of those families where I was there
was never in question my father was
fiercely loyal uh to my mother and she
was fiercely loyal to him and
um and and and loyalty um I think plays
an important role in in what you're
doing I think people people see that as
something that they can count on right
and that sets you up for Success too I
think so I would say that was that was
uh that was probably again the first
half of my life I would say that's what
that's what paved the way and then uh
meeting Emily I completely out kicked my
coverage as they say yeah did your dad
know how much you appreciated the model
of what it is to be a man that you he
said you yeah yeah I feel good about
um I remember thinking about that when
he
died I remember thinking that
uh I remember thinking that I was very
happy that that I had told him sorry
that I had told him what I thought of
him right we were very we we were very
good with each other in terms of talking
about what we felt um and how uh we
appre appreciated each other and that's
that's a really good thing cuz I don't
think you want someone to go and you
think well I should have said that I
should have said should have said
something different um I was lucky you
know he uh you know we we had a we had a
really good
dialogue
yeah where does that emotion come from
you just you know there it's it's I
think
it's that's that's Humanity it's just
how you feel right and and your your
experiences um you know all my
experiences with you know my dad were
just solid you know just going out just
doing things just getting together just
meeting up as as you know when when uh
you know I was older and I'd come I'd
come back to the States for you know a
few days and we get together and and uh
you know just like there was there was a
a b there that was just really solid and
I feel the same way with I've you know
I've got brothers and they're all older
than I am um and you know that's that's
that's a tight relationship right so
yeah I think it's it's good I don't I
don't get uh I don't get emotional about
much but but family I do um because at
the end of the day nobody nobody's going
to write on my Tombstone that I worked
my ass off right or that I was a I was a
real solid
you know officer or that you know I sure
built a really nice business it's not
going to matter it's you know all I care
about is his family and friends if you
could write something on his
Tombstone what would you
write thanks I don't know what else you
would say you know just thank you
um you
know I did write a little little note he
was in his uniform when we buried him
and uh I wrote a little note and tucked
it in his in his uniform pocket um but
that's between me and
him so but I appreciate you bringing
this up it's nice I mean it is nice to
talk I would you know I love talking
about the family um but uh yeah that's
that's it it's it's not a you know it's
probably not the probably not the the
most dynamic answer you get from that
question I suppose people have more more
um
more interesting answers but I don't
know you know one that would be more
meaningful
so anyway I think it's a perfectly I
think it's a wonderful answer because it
says so much about your values and where
you've come from and what's driving you
and the man that you are and your
priorities because it's so clear how
much he meant to you and and it's
evident to me how you must be paying
that forward as a man to your children
as well
um in any way that you possibly can and
I think if we understand especially for
men I think if we understand the role
model that our fathers set us we we
understand what we think is important
and what we think is right yeah because
my same with my father my father and my
mother didn't get on but one of the
things I'll always remember was even In
the Heat of their like
conflicts if she needed something mid
argument he would do it he never left
because of the kids and so there there
was clearly a principle in my father
where
there was something more important than
the argument and that is the family the
love and the taking care of of your
woman yeah so even now when I'm in a
relationship if I'm in an argument with
my girlfriend or we're disagreeing about
something I will always know that
there's something more important which
is my responsibility to take care of
these people right you and that came
from my dad that's exactly right that's
that's exactly right yeah you have to
know when to bend your spear right and
you just I think um yeah I I I think
that's
if you can if you can pass that sense of
of uh whatever it is of loyalty of of
appreciation of Duty of um of hard work
of honesty if you can pass that along to
your kids you know you've done your
job that's why I say it's it's and
that's what I mean by I'm not here to
raise average kids I don't mean like
I've got to raise you know
multi-millionaire so I've got to you
know that's not what I'm talking about
I'm talking about their their character
and how they deal with the
world Mike thank you thank you for doing
what you do it's um as I said before we
started recording I'm someone that's
quite naive to these issues and uh part
of that is because I'm very busy doing
my own thing so I I try not to talk
about these things that I don't
understand but the way that you deliver
the the information through your book
through your podcast and even here today
and on all the shows that I've seen you
on is incredibly important because it's
so accessible thank you um and that
means that people like me can gain a
better understanding of what's happening
in the world and then make you know
better decisions for my life but what
you know who I'm voting for and why I'm
voting for them um which are
consequential to all of us and that's a
very noble noble cause thaning so thank
you I know thank you I've enjoyed the
hell out of this conversation I really
really have and and uh it's gone by very
quickly and I apologize for marking up
your map it's all good thank you
[Music]
Mike I'm going to let you into a little
bit of a secret you're probably going to
think me and my team are a little bit
weird but I can still remember to this
day when Jima from my team posted on
slack that she Chang the scent in this
studio and right after she posted it the
entire office clapped in our slack
Channel and this might sound crazy but
at the DI ofo this is the type of 1%
Improvement we make on our show and that
is why the show is the Way It Is by
understanding the power of compounding
1% you can absolutely change your
outcomes in your life it isn't about
drastic Transformations or quick wins
it's about the small consistent actions
that have a lasting change in your
outcomes so so 2 years ago we started
the process of creating this beautiful
diary and it's truly beautiful inside
there's lots of pictures lots of
inspiration and motivation as well some
interact developments and the purpose of
this diary is to help you identify stay
focused on develop consistency with the
1% that will ultimately change your life
we're only going to do a limited run of
these Diaries so if you want one for
yourself or for a friend or for a
colleague or for your team then head to
the diary.com right now I'll link it
below
oh
[Music]